>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
MAY 11th, IS UKRAINE ON TH
VENGE OF COMING APART?
TWO REGIONS ENDORSE A PLAN THA
COULD LEAD TO SECESSION.
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
QUESTION OF SAFETY
MORE AND MORE OIL BEING SHIPPE
ON OLD RAIL CARS THROUGH
AMERICAN CITIES.
>> NOW IF WE'RE SENDING 10 OR 20
OR 30 TIMES AS MUCH OIL DOWN THE
TRACK THAT OBVIOUSLY INCREASES
THE CHANCES OF AN ACCIDENT
OCCURRING.
>>> AND, NEW HOPE IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST CANCER
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS A
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK, HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUS
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE, MIKE
ROGERS, TODAY ACCUSED RUSSIA
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN O
MISS-LEADING THE PUBLIC WHEN H
SAID EARLIER THIS WEEK RUSSIAN
TROOPS ARE PULLING BACK FROM
RUSSIA'S BORDER WITH UKRAINE
>> THEY'RE PULLING TROOPS OUT BR
FOR THE SOLE PURPOSE OF ROTATING
OUT THEIR CONSCRIPTS
THEY HAVE TWO-YEAR CONSCRIPTIO
THERE IN RUSSIA.
THOSE TWO YEARS ARE UP FOR A LOT
OF THOSE FORCES ALONG THE BORDER
SO THEY'RE REALLY ROTATING THE
OUT.
I WOULD NOT READ THAT HE I
WHOLESALE PULLING HIS TRAP
BACK
THIS IS A FUNCTION OF MAKING
SURE HE HAS FRESH CONSCRIPTS U
ALONG THE BORDER
>> ACROSS THE BORDER IN EASTER
UKRAINE, IN TWO LARGEL
RUSSIAN-SPEAKING PROVINCES
EARLY INDICATIONS ARE THAT
VOTERS HAVE OVERWHELMINGLY
APPROVED A MEASURE THAT COUL
POTENTIALLY LEAD TO THEI
SECESSION FROM UKRAINE
THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT IN
UKRAINE AND THE WESTERN POWERS
HAVE DISMISSED THE VOTE AS
ILLEGITIMATE
>>> IN EASTERN UKRAINE TODAY
NATIONAL GUARDSMEN OPENED FIRE
ON CIVILIANS PROTESTING TH
CLOSING OF A POLLING STATION
ONE MAN REPORTEDLY WAS KILLE
AND SEVERAL OTHERS WOUNDED
THIS VIDEO WAS DISTRIBUTED B
RUSSIAN STATE MEDIA.
FOR THE LATEST FROM EASTER
UKRAINE, WE ARE JOINED VIA SKYPE
BY PHILIP SHISHKIN FROM "THE
WALL STREET JOURNAL.
WHY DOES TODAY'S VOTE MATTER I
THE GRAND SCHEME OF THINGS
>> IT MATTERS BECAUSE FO
RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS IN EASTERN
UKRAINE, ABOUT TO DECLAR
INDEPENDENCE
NOT FOR ONE BUT TWO PROVINCE
BORDERING RUSSIA
THEY NEED THIS VOTE TO GIV
THEIR EFFORTS A VENEER O
LEGITIMACY
THAT'S WHY THERE'S BEEN SOME
PEOPLE HEADING TO THE POLLS,
THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT.
>> WHEN YOU SPOKE TO PEOPLE AT
THE POLLS TODAY, WAS THIS A VOTE
FOR INDEPENDENCE AND TO JOIN
RUSSIA
OR WAS THIS MORE FRUSTRATION
AGAINST KIEV
>> IT'S A COMBINATION OF BOTH.
IF YOU LOOK AT PUBLIC OPINIO
POLLS, THE ONES THAT WER
CONDUCTED INDEPENDENTLY BY
PROFESSIONALS, THERE'S VERY,
VERY LOW SUPPORT FOR ANY SORT OF
INDEPENDENCE OR SECESSION FROM
UKRAINE HERE
INTERESTINGLY, THOSE SAME POLL
ALSO SHOW, AS YOU SAID, GREA
FRUSTRATION WITH THE INTERIM
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
THE VOTE TODAY, PEOPLE THAT DI
GO TO THE POLLS, AND PRETTY MUCH
EVERYONE WHO WENT TO THE POLLS
WOULD VOTE YES TO THE QUESTION
OF STATE SOVEREIGNTY
SO THEY WERE VOTING AGAINST KIEV
AS MUCH AS THEY WERE VOTING FO
ANY SORT OF INDEPENDENCE
>> WE'VE ALREADY HEARD FROM TH
WESTERN POWERS, THE UKRAINIA
GOVERNMENT, WHO FINDS THIS
ENTIRE EXERCISE AND THIS VOT
ILLEGITIMATE
HAS THERE BEEN ANY RESPONSE FROM
RUSSIA TODAY
>> I HAVE NOT SEEN ANY RESPONS
YET.
IT'S INTERESTING
BECAUSE THE REFERENDUM I
ACTUALLY BEING CONDUCTED FOR THE
AUDIENCE OF ONE, MAYBE MORE THAN
ONE, BUT THAT'S THE KEY AUDIENCE
OF THIS REFERENDUM, IT'S NOT I
THE WEST, IT'S IN THE KREMLIN.
THE PEOPLE WHO CALL THEMSELVES
THE DONETSK PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC,
THEIR LONG-TERM GAME PERHAPS I
TO HAVE CRIMEA ANNEXATION BY
RUSSIA
THEY REALIZE THE DONETSK
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC HAS NO
ECONOMIC FUTURE.
WE HAVEN'T HEARD ANY PUBLI
SUPPORT FROM MOSCOW FROM RUSSIAN
LEADERS FOR AN NECESSARY SAYING,
SO IT REMAINS TO BE SEEN WHETHER
DONETSK PEOPLE'S REPUBLI
FOLLOWS THE BREAKAWAY STATES O
GEORGIA AND MOLDOVA INTO THI
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC LIMBO, OR
WHETHER SOME FORM OF A
CRIMEA-STYLE MERGER WITH RUSSI
IS IN THE WORKS.
I DON'T THINK PEOPLE HAV
ACTUALLY DECIDED WHAT TO D
HERE, OR IN MOSCOW, FOR THAT
MATTER
>> OUR REPORTER FROM "THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL" JOINING US VIA
SKYPE FROM DONETSK, THANKS S
MUCH
>> MY PLEASURE, THANKS FOR
HAVING ME.
>>> DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUC
HAGEL SAID TODAY AMERICA WILL DO
ALL IT CAN TO HELP THE NIGERIA
GOVERNMENT IN ITS SEARCH FOR
THOSE 276 SCHOOLGIRLS ABDUCTED
BY ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS.
BUT DURING AN INTERVIEW THAT
AIRED THIS MORNING ON ABC, HAGEL
SET LIMITS ON THE AMERICAN ROL
THERE.
>> WE'RE GOING TO BRING TO BEA
EVERY ASSET WE CAN POSSIBLY US
TO HELP THE NIGERIAN GOVERNMENT.
>> I KNOW ONE OF THE THING
PEOPLE KEEP SAYING IS, WHY
WOULDN'T U.S. SPECIAL OPERATOR
GO IN AND TRY TO FIND THE GIRLS?
>> YEAH, WELL, I THINK YOU LOO
AT EVERYTHING.
BUT THERE'S NO INTENTION AT THIS
POINT TO BE PUTTING ANY AMERICAN
BOOTS ON THE GROUND.
-- IN AN INTERVIEW WITH TH
ASSOCIATED PRESS TODAY, ONE OF
AT HER GIRL CALLED THE INCIDEN
TOO TERRIFYING FOR WORDS
>>> DURING HIS BROADCAST
INTERVIEW WITH MARTHA RADDATZ,
HAGEL WAS ASKED ABOUT ENDING THE
BAN ON TRANSGENDER INDIVIDUALS
SERVING IF THE MILITARY.
>> IS THAT SOMETHING THAT SHOULD
BE LOOKED AT AGAIN
>> I DO THINK IT CONTINUALLY
SHOULD BE REVIEWED
I'M OPEN TO THAT
>> CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATORS
SAY THE GOVERNMENT HAS FAILED TO
INSPECT THOUSANDS OF OIL AND GAS
WELLS ON FEDERAL LAND, EVE
THOUGH ENVIRONMENTALISTS BELIEVE
FRACKING BEING DONE THERE COUL
CONTAMINATE WATER SUPPLIES
THE FINDINGS BY THE GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE ASCRIBED
THE PROBLEM TO LACK OF RESOURCES
AND POOR COORDINATION BETWEE
BLM AND STATE REGULATORS
SOME MEMBERS AT THE SECRET
SERVICE WHO PATROL THE ARE
AROUND THE WHITE HOUSE
REPORTEDLY WERE REDEPLOYED
DURING SUMMER 2011 TO PROTECT AN
ASSISTANT WHO WAS ALSO A
PERSONAL FRIEND OF THE AGENCY'
DIRECTOR AT THE TIME
THIS ACCORDING TO "THE
WASHINGTON POST.
THE FRIEND WAS INVOLVED IN A
DISPUTE WITH A NEIGHBOR.
AGENTS INSIDE THE SECRET
SERVICE'S WASHINGTON FIELD
OFFICE REPORTEDLY WERE CONCERNED
THE DIVERSION INCREASED THE RISK
TO THE PRESIDENT
A SECRET SERVICE SPOKESMAN
CALLED THE OPERATION A STANDAR
RESPONSE TO A POTENTIAL THREAT
AGAINST AN EMPLOYEE AND SAID I
LASTED DAYS, NOT MONTHS.
>>> MICHAEL SAND MAY BECOME TH
FIRST OPENLY GAY ATHLETE IN TH
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
HE WAS DRAFTED IN THE SEVENT
ROUND LAST NIGHT BY THE ST
LOUIS RAMS
THIS WAS THE MOMENT HE LEARNED
HE HAD BEEN CHOSEN
>>> NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
FOR THE PAST MANY MONTHS, TH
DEBATE ABOUT THE SAFE TRANSPOR
OF OIL ACROSS THE UNITED STATE
HAS FOCUSED ON THE KEYSTON
PIPELINE
BUT THERE'S ANOTHER ONGOIN
SAFETY DEBATE.
IT'S ABOUT THE SHIPMENT OF OIL
BY RAIL, OFTEN ON OLD RAIL CARS.
THAT'S A GROWING ISSUE
ESPECIALLY IN NORTH DAKOTA
THAT STATE'S OIL BOOM HAS LED TO
HUGE BUDGET SURPLUSES AN
CREATED THOUSANDS OF JOBS.
BUT BECAUSE THERE ARE FE
PIPELINES IN THE STATE, MUCH O
THE OIL EXTRACTED THERE HAS TO
BE SEPTEMBER ACROSS THE NATION
BY RAIL.
AND SEVERAL FIERY DERAILMENT
HAVE RAISED SAFETY CONCERNS.
THE REPORT FROM NORTH DAKOTA
>> 911, WHAT'S YOUR EMERGENCY?
>> HI, CASTLETON, THERE'S LIKE
HUGE BLACK SMOKE, I DON'T KNOW
IF SOMEBODY'S HOUSE IS ON FIRE
>> Reporter: IT WAS JUST AFTER
2:00 P.M. ON DECEMBER 30th
2013, WHEN THE CALLS BEGAN
STREAMING IN
>> WHAT'S GOING ON
>> THERE WAS A TRAIN THA
DERAILED
>> Reporter: TWO TRAINS HA
COLLIDED HALF A MILE OUTSIDE
CASTLETON, NORTH DAKOTA.
ONE LOADED WITH GRAIN, THE OTHER
WITH CRUDE OIL
>> LOOKS LIKE IT'S GOING TO GO
FROM CAR TO CAR.
THEY KEEP LIGHTING ON FIRE
>> Reporter: VOLUNTEER FIR
CHIEF TIM McCLAIN HEADED
STRAIGHT TO THE SCENE.
>> THEN I KIND OF KNEW, THIS WAS
GOING TO BE A BIG ONE.
THE WAY IT WAS DESCRIBED
>> Reporter: COMMUNITY WAYNE
BERNIE CENTER WAS MEETING WITH A
CLIENT IN HIS OFFICE
HIS WINDOW IS JUST 50 FEET FRO
THE RAIL TRACK
>> YOU COULD SEE PLUMES OF BLACK
SMOKE RISING PRETTY HIGH ABOVE
THE FREE LINE, ABOVE THE
BUILDINGS THAT ARE ACROSS TH
STREET FROM US
>> Reporter: FROM THE TOWN'S
MAIN INTERSECTION, WITNESSES
COULD HEAR EXPLOSIONS AS THE
RAIL CARS BLEW APART, SENDIN
FIREBALLS INTO THE SKY
ED McCONNELL HAS BEEN MAYOR OF
CASTLE TON FOR 16 YEARS.
>> THEY EVACUATED THE SOUTHWES
CORNER OF TOWN, WHICH WAS TH
PART OF THE TOWN THAT WAS MOST
AFFECTED BY IT
>> Reporter: BUT ONCE THE WIND
TURNED, OFFICIALS PUT THE ENTIRE
TOWN OF 2,500 UNDER A VOLUNTAR
EVACUATION ORDER
SOME 400,000 GALLONS OF CRUD
LEAKED FROM 18 RUPTURED CARS
THE FIRE BURNED FOR A FULL DAY
>> THERE WOULD BE NO BATTLIN
THIS FIRE.
EVEN IF YOU HAD AN ENDLESS
SUPPLY OF WATER.
>> Reporter: BOTH TRAINS WER
OPERATED BY BNSF RAILWAY
FOR THE RECORD, BNSF IS
"NEWSHOUR" FUNDER.
NO ONE WAS KILLED OR INJURED BUT
THE ACCIDENT HIT CLOSE TO HOME
FOR THE STATE'S GOVERNOR. HE
GREW UP IN CASTLETON
>> I COULDN'T BELIEVE IT
I WAS HAVING DINNER AND ALL OF A
SUDDEN SOMEBODY SENT ME A VIDE
ON MY PHONE.
AND I SAID, CASTLETON?
I CAN'T BELIEVE THAT
>> WHAT DID IT TELL YOU ABOU
WHAT'S GOING ON ON THE RAILS I
NORTH DAKOTA
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, IT TELLS ME
AND I THINK EVERYBODY, THE SAM
THING.
WHAT IF THAT HAPPENED, YOU KNOW,
IN THE CITY OR EVEN IN THE
MIDDLE OF A TOWN
YOU KNOW, IT COULD BE REALLY
CATASTROPHIC
>> Reporter: AS MAYOR McCONNEL
SAYS, HIS TOWN DODGED A BULLET
BUT MONTHS EARLIER A COMMUNITY
IN CANADA WASN'T NEARLY SO
LUCKY.
ON JULY 6th, 2013, A SIMILAR
TRAIN ALSO LOADED WITH CRUDE
FROM A SHALE FORMATION DERAILE
AND EXPLODED IN QUEBEC, KILLIN
47 AND DESTROYING MUCH OF TH
TOWN'S CENTER.
SIX YEARS AGO, U.S. RAILWAYS
CARRIED JUST 9,500 CARLOADS OF
CRUDE EACH YEAR.
BUT TODAY, AS HUGE AMOUNTS O
OIL ARE PRODUCED IN STATES LIK
NORTH DAKOTA, FAR FROM
TRADITIONAL PIPELINE
INFRASTRUCTURE, THAT FIGURE HA
JUMPED TO MORE THAN 400,000.
AND WITH OIL TRAIN DERAILMENTS
IN ALABAMA, PENNSYLVANIA, AN
MOST RECENTLY DOWNTOWN
LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA, REGULATOR
AND POLICYMAKERS ARE GROWING
CONCERNED ABOUT THE SAFETY O
MOVING OIL BY RAIL
>> IT'S JUST -- IT'S NOT SAFE.
>> Reporter: DON MORRISON RUNS
THE DAKOTA RESOURCE COUNCIL, A
CONSORTIUM OF 700 LANDOWNERS
RANCHERS, BUSINESSPEOPLE IN TH
STATE.
>> THEY DIDN'T FIGURE OUT HO
WE'RE GOING TO GET TO THIS
MARKET IN A SAFE WAY
>> Reporter: MOST OF THE 7.5
MILLION BARRELS OF OIL PRODUCE
EACH DAY IN THE U.S. TRAVELS B
PIPELINE
BUT 70% OF THE MILLION BARRELS
COMING OUT OF NORTH DAKOTA EAC
DAY GOES BY RAIL
THAT'S BECAUSE MOST OF THE
COUNTRY'S REFINING CAPACITY IS
FAR FROM NORTH DAKOTA.
THAT MEANS NORTH DAKOTA CRUD
HAS TO TRAVEL HUNDREDS OF MILE
TO BE PROCESSED INTO GASOLIN
FOR CARS, FUEL FOR JET ENGINES
WHILE PIPELINES REQUIRE NE
CONSTRUCTION AND REGULATOR
APPROVAL, THE LONG-STALLED
KEYSTONE XL, CASE IN POINT
FREIGHT RAIL ALREADY
CRISSCROSSES NORTH DAKOTA AN
THE COUNTRY.
>> HISTORICALLY YOU WOULD HAVE
NEVER THOUGHT OIL WOULD TRAVEL
BY RAIL.
IN THIS DAY AND AGE.
>> Reporter: RON NESS HEADS TH
NORTH DAKOTA PETROLEUM COUNCIL
A GROUP THAT REPRESENTS TH
STATE'S OIL INDUSTRY AND
SUPPORTS HAULING OIL BY RAIL
>> HOW SAFE IS IT?
>> SAFETY IS CERTAINLY THE
NUMBER ONE ASPECT.
I THINK ALL ASPECTS OF THE
TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY AR
FOCUSED ON IT.
AT 99.7% OF THE TIME, YOU KNOW
RAIL MOVEMENTS ABOUT IT TO THEIR
DESTINATIONS SAFELY.
>> Reporter: ACTUALLY, THE RAI
INDUSTRY SAYS ITS SAFETY RECOR
IS EVEN BETTER
JUST A TYPENY CHANCE OF
CATASTROPHE MAKES POLICYMAKERS
LIKE THE GOVERNOR UNEASY
ESPECIALLY WITH NORTH DAKOTA'S
MAJOR CITIES AND TOWNS SITUATE
DIRECTLY ON THE RAIL
>> WHERE WE, YOU KNOW, NEVER
REMEMBERED ANY KIND OF A
ACCIDENT LIKE THIS BEFORE, NOW
IF WE'RE SENDING 10 OR 20 OR 3
TIMES AS MUCH OIL DOWN THE
TRACK, THAT OBVIOUSLY INCREASE
THE CHANCES OF AN ACCIDENT
OCCURRING.
AND THAT BECOMES SORT OF A NEW
REALITY THAT, YOU KNOW
EVERYBODY HAS TO GET USED TO
>> Reporter: AND NOW THERE ARE
MOUNTING CONCERNS ABOUT THE RAIL
CARS PREDOMINANTLY USED TO HAU
OIL ACROSS THE NATION.
>> SINCE 1991, THE NATIONA
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD HA
WARNED THAT RAIL CARS LIKE
THESE, DOT 111, ARE MORE PRONE
TO RUPTURE IN CASE OF AN
ACCIDENT
BUT IT WASN'T UNTIL A 2009
DERAILMENT IN ILLINOIS THAT TH
RAILWAY INDUSTRY BEGAN
INSTITUTING ITS OWN, MOR
ROBUST, SAFETY STANDARDS T
STRENGTHEN CARS LIKE THESE
BUT MORE THAN 80% OF THOSE TYPES
OF RAIL CARS IN NORTH AMERIC
ARE OLDER MODELS THAT DON'T MEET
THOSE STANDARDS.
AND SO FAR, THERE'S NO MANDATE
TIMELINE FOR GETTING RID OF TH
OLDER ONES LIKE THOSE INVOLVED
IN THE CASTLETON AND QUEBE
DERAILMENTS.
THE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA
RAILROADS, AN INDUSTRY GROUP
TOLD "NEWSHOUR" OLDER CARS
SHOULD BE PHASED OUT AS SWIFTL
AS POSSIBLE, BUT THAT A TIMELINE
HAS TO BE WORKED OUT BY TH
GOVERNMENT
IN THE MEANTIME, BNSF RAILWAYS
IS SEEKING TO ACQUIRE 5,000 NE
SAFER TANKERS.
JUST THIS WEEK THE DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION ADVISED ALL
CARRIERS OF OIL FROM NORTH
DAKOTA AND BALKEN SHALE TO AVOID
THE USE OF OLDER LEGACY TANK
CARS
BUT ONLY "TO THE EXTEN
REASONABLY PRACTICABLE."
AND IT'S NOT JUST THE CARS THA
HAVE CRITICS CONCERNED
THE D.O.T. HAS ALSO WARNED NORTH
DAKOTA CRUDE ITSELF MAY BE MOR
FLAMMABLE THAN OTHER TYPES O
OIL, POTENTIALLY LEADING TO MORE
DANGEROUS ACCIDENTS.
AGAIN, DAKOTA RESOURCE COUNCIL
DON MORRISON
>> GOING RIGHT NEXT TO PEOPLE'
HOUSES AND BUSINESSES, IT'
DANGEROUS.
AND THEY GOT TO BE CAREFUL
>> Reporter: WITH JUST 5
INSPECTORS NATIONWIDE, THE
D.O.T.'S HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
REGULATOR HAS LAUNCHED ROUTINE
AND SURPRISE INSPECTIONS T
ENSURE OIL IS BEING PROPERLY
TESTED FOR FOREMAN ABILITY
AS A RESULT, THIS FEBRUARY, TH
AGENCY ANNOUNCED FINES AGAINST
THREE OIL COMPANIES.
MARATHON, HESS, WHITING.
ALLEGEDLY ASSIGNING THEIR OIL TO
THE WRONG SAFETY CATEGORY.
THE D.O.T. LATER DROPPED FINES
AGAINST WHITING.
BUT IT'S STILL PURSUIN
ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AGAINST HESS
AND MARATHON
>> WHAT IS IT THAT IS DISTINCT
ABOUT THIS KIND OF OIL THAT'
COMING OUT OF THE GROUND
>> WE DON'T THINK THE BALKEN
CRUDE OIL IS THAT DISTINCT FRO
ANY OTHER HIGH-QUALITY LIGHT
SWEET CRUDE OIL, WTI, LOUISIAN
SWEET.
>> Reporter: TO PROVE THAT
POINT, HIS ORGANIZATION WILL
ANNOUNCE THE FINDINGS OF ITS OWN
FLAMMABILITY TESTS
THE INDUSTRY WILL HAVE ENACTED
TESTS TO MAKE CRUDE TRANSITS
SAFER, LIKE SLOWER TRAIN SPEED
AND ENHANCED BRAKING SYSTEMS
NORTH DAKOTA'S REPUBLICAN PART
CHAIRMAN SUGGESTED OIL
DEVELOPMENT MAY BE MOVING TO
QUICKLY, EVEN WITH THE
FASTEST-GROWING ECONOMY IN THE
COUNTRY CRITICS SAY IT'S TIM
FOR A SLOW-DOWN IN THE STATE'S
ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
THE GOVERNOR THINKS THAT'S
UNWISE
>> ULTIMATELY WE DO HAVE TO LOOK
AT THE STATISTICS OF EVERYTHING.
WE WOULD NOT SHUT DOWN THE
AIRLINE INDUSTRY BECAUSE THERE
WAS ONE AIRPLANE CRASH
AND WE DON'T CLOSE OUR
INTERSTATE HIGHWAYS BECAUS
THERE'S A CAR ACCIDENT
>> Reporter: AFTER YEARS O
DISCUSSION, THIS APRIL D.O.T
SUBMITTED NEW RULES FOR SAFE
CARS TO THE WHITE HOUSE.
BUT THOSE RULES LIKELY WON'T
COME INTO EFFECT BEFORE 2015
MEANWHILE, MILE-LONG OIL TRAIN
RUMBLE THROUGH TOWNS LIK
CASTLETON.
BESIDES REASSURANCES MAYOR
McCONNELL IS WORRIED
>> IT'S A MECHANICAL SYSTEM.
ANY TIME IT'S USED MORE, THERE
WILL BE MORE FAILURES.
IT'S INEVITABLE.
>> Reporter: OIL PRODUCTION IN
NORTH DAKOTA IS EXPECTED T
CLIMB 70% BY 2020.
MOST OF THAT OIL WILL TRAVEL B
RAIL
>>> SENIOR ENERGY REPORTER GOULD
AT "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL,
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> THERE IS IMPORTANT NEWS IN
THE FIGHT AGAINST CANCER
A STUDY SAYS SCIENTISTS HAVE
DEVISED A NEW APPROACH THA
REPRESENT THE BLUEPRINT FO
MAKING IMMUNOTHERAPY T
TREAT CANCERS AND TO TARGET WHAT
IS UNIQUE ABOUT EACH PERSON'
CANCER
WE'RE JOINED BY DR. STEVEN
ROSENBERG, CHIEF OF SURGER
BRANCH AT NATIONAL CANCE
INSTITUTE FOR CANCER RESEARCH,
AND SENIOR AUTHOR OF THE STUDY
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
SO IN THIS EXPERIMENT, THE
INTERESTING THING IS THERE'S NOT
ANY MIRACLE DRUG
YOU FOUND A WAY TO SUPER CHARG
A PATIENT'S OWN IMMUNE SYSTEM TO
FIGHT A CANCER
HOW DID YOU DO THAT?
>> THIS IS A WAY TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THE PATIENT'S OWN
NATURAL IMMUNE DEFENSE AGAINST
THE CANCER
ONE OF THE MAJOR ISSUES IN ALL
OF CANCER TREATMENT IS FINDING
WAYS TO ATTACK THE CANCE
WITHOUT ALSO ATTACKING NORMA
CELLS.
CANCER BECOMES A CANCER BECAUS
A NORMAL CELL ACCUMULATES IN ITS
DNA A LARGE NUMBER OF MUTATIONS,
THAT IS, CHANGES IN THE DN
SEQUENCE THAT RESULTS IN NEW
PROTEINS
IN THIS PAPER, WE'VE WORKED OU
A WAY TO TARGET THE EXACT MU
TRAITIONS THAT RESULT FROM
MAKING A NORMAL CELL INTO
CANCER CELL.
SO IN THAT SENSE ARE IT'S A VERY
HIGHLY SPECIFIC AND HIGHLY
UNIQUE TREATMENT THAT HAS TO B
DEVELOPED FOR EACH INDIVIDUA
PATIENT.
>> SO YOU REALLY DID THE DNA -
>> THE SEQUENCING OF THE
SPECIFIC TUMOR, THAT'S RIGHT
SO WHAT ONE HAS TO DO IN
PERFORMING THIS NEW TREATMENT IS
TO SEQUENCE THE PATIENT'
CANCER, IDENTIFY ALL OF TH
MUTATIONS, THE DIFFERENCES FRO
NORMAL THAT EXIST IN THA
PATIENT'S DNA SEQUENCE
AND THEN SPECIFICALLY TARGET THE
INDIVIDUAL MUTATIONS THAT HAVE
OCCURRED AMONG THE 3 BILLION
BASES OF DNA
WE CAN TARGET THE SINGLE BAS
CHANGE THAT RESULTS IN MAKIN
THAT NORMAL CELL A CANCER CELL
IN DOING THAT WE CAN ACTUALL
AFFECT THE CANCER WITHOU
AFFECTING NORMAL TISSUES
IT'S A VERY EXPERIMENTAL
TECHNIQUE.
IT HAS TO BE DEVELOPED
INDIVIDUALLY FOR EACH PATIENT.
>> HOW LONG DOES THAT TAKE I
IT'S SPECIFIC TO EACH PATIENT?
>> FROM THE TIME WE ACTUALLY
RESECT THE CANCER AND BEGIN TO
DO THE SEQUENCING, ONE CAN HAV
THE TREATMENT READY IN ABOUT
FIVE TO SIX WEEKS.
BUT IT'S A VERY COMPLEX KIND O
TREATMENT.
AND IN THE FIRST PATIENT I
WHICH WE DEMONSTRATED THIS KIN
OF APPROACH CAN WORK, IT TOO
ABOUT TWO MONTHS TO DEVELOP TH
TREATMENT FOR THAT INDIVIDUA
PATIENT.
BUT IT REPRESENTS A BLUEPRIN
FOR HOW TO DO THIS FOR OTHER
INDIVIDUALS AS WELL.
>> ALL RIGHT, SO YOU'VE ONLY HAD
ONE PATIENT, AS YOU MENTIONED.
WHY IS THIS SO GROUND-BREAKING
>> ONE OF THE MAJOR PROBLEMS W
HAVE IN CANCER IS THE FACT THA
ALTHOUGH WE CAN CURE ABOUT HAL
OF ALL PATIENTS THAT DEVELOP
CANCER IN THIS -- IN 2014, HAL
OF THE PATIENTS THAT DEVELOP
CANCER WILL ULTIMATELY DIE O
THAT DISEASE
WE DON'T HAVE CURES FOR MOST
CANCERS ONCE THEY'VE SPREA
THROUGHOUT THE BODY.
WHEN WE APPLY TREATMENTS LIK
SURGERY, RADIATION
CHEMOTHERAPY, WE OFTEN ATTAC
THE CANCER BUT CAN AFFECT NORMAL
TISSUES AS WELL.
THE UNIQUE ASPECT OF THI
PARTICULAR TREATMENT THAT TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THE EXQUISITE
SPECIFICITY AND SENSITIVITY OF
THE BODY'S OWN IMMUNE SYSTEM I
WE CAN TARGET SOMETHING THAT'S
ABSOLUTELY UNIQUE TO THE CANCER.
SO THAT IT HAS NO IMPACT AT AL
ON THE PATIENT'S NORMAL TISSUES.
NOW THIS HAS BEEN DONE IN ON
PATIENT.
A PATIENT THAT HAD 26 MUTATION
INSIDE THEIR CANCER.
WE WERE ABLE TO FIND A SINGL
ONE THIS WE COULD TARGET
SINCE ALMOST ALL CANCERS CONTAIN
MUTATIONS, AS WE CONTINUE TO
DEVELOP THIS, HOPEFULLY THIS
KIND OF APPROACH CAN BE USED T
TARGET THE OTHER CANCERS THA
START IN MANY DIFFERENT ORGANS
AND DIVIDE
>> PEOPLE ARE GOING TO WONDE
THAT EXACT QUESTION.
THIS IS ONE SPECIFIC CANCER, ONE
SPECIFIC PATIENT
HOW LONG TILL YOUR RESEARC
COMPLETES AND THIS CAN B
APPLIED TO OTHER CANCERS AND I
A WIDER AUDIENCE
>> WE HAVE SOME IMMUNE OWE
THERAPIES TODAY, LIKE INTERLUCEN
TWO AGAINST MELANOMA, OTHE
DRUGS CAN STIMULATE THE IMMUNE
SYSTEM AGAINST KIDNEY CANCER
WE HAVE NOT HAD IMMUNE-BASED
TREATMENTS THAT CAN JOIN SURGERY
RADIATION AND CHEMOTHERAPY T
ATTACK THE COMMON CANCERS.
CARRIES THAT START IN THE COLON,
IN THE RECTUM, IN THE PANCREAS
THE ESOPHAGUS, THE OVARY, TH
PROSTATE
THIS PARTICULAR APPROACH CAN
WORK INDISCRIMINATELY REGARDLESS
OF WHERE THE CANCER AROSE.
IN THIS PARTICULAR PATIENT THE
CANCER AROSE IN THE BILE DUCTS
AND LIVER AND SPREAD THROUGHOU
THE LIVER AND INTO THE LUNGS
AND SO, AGAIN, I WANT TO
EMPHASIZE IT'S A HIGHL
EXPERIMENTAL TREATMENT
THE PAPER IN "SCIENCE" SHOWS
THAT YOU CAN SUCCESSFULLY ATTACK
AN INDIVIDUAL MUTATION INSIDE
CANCER
WE'RE NOW WORKING AROUND THE
CLOCK TO TRY TO SIMPLIFY THI
PROCEDURE SO THAT WE CAN BRING
IT TO ADDITIONAL PEOPLE.
>> ALL RIGHT
DR. STEVEN ROSENBERG FRO
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SUNDAY."
>>> TONIGHT WE LOOK BACK AT
MOMENT 60 YEARS AGO THIS PAS
WEEK
A FEAT BY A 25-YEAR-OLD BRITIS
RUNNER WHO DID WHAT DOCTORS HA
CALLED IMPOSSIBLE.
AS HE CROSSED THE FINISH LIN
THAT DAY IN OXFORD, ENGLAND,
ROGER BANNISTER'S ANGUISHED FACE
TOLD THE STORY
HE HAD JUST DONE WHAT NO MAN O
WOMAN HAD EVER DONE BEFORE
HE HAD RUN A MILE IN LESS THAN
FOUR MINUTES
>> WELL DONE, ROGER BANNISTER!
>> 3:59.4 TO BE PRECISE.
THE MEDICAL STUDENT HAD A LITTLE
HELP
TWO TEAMMATES PURPOSELY SET
FAST PACE AND ONE OF THEM STIL
LED AS THEY REACHED TH
THREE-QUARTER MILE MARK, NOW
SLIGHTLY BEHIND PACE
>> THE THIRD LAP WAS 62.
AND THAT MADE 3:05
AND THEN I HAD TO DECIDE WHETHER
TO OVERTAKE HIM THEN OR JUST
WAIT FOR ANOTHER BEND, ANOTHER
BEND MEANT THAT I DIDN'T HAVE TO
RUN WIDE AND I DIDN'T WANT T
RUN AN EXTRA 60 YARDS.
>> BANISTER KNEW ONE OF HI
CHIEF AMERICAN RIVALS HAD COME
CLOSE TO A FOUR-MINUTE MIL
AGAIN AND AGAIN, BEFORE FINALL
CONCLUDING IT JUST COULD NOT B
DONE
>> SIX TIMES HE RAN AROUND 4:0
IN THAT PREVIOUS YEAR.
THAT WAS WHAT LED HIM TO SAY
THAT IT IS INSURMOUNTABLE.
IT IS LIKE A CEMENT WALL
>> BANISTER DESCRIBED THE LAST
LAP, THE ONE THAT PUT HIM IN THE
HISTORY BOOKS, THIS WAY.
"I FELT AT THAT MOMENT THAT IT
WAS MY CHANCE TO DO ONE THIN
SUPREMELY WELL
I DROVE ON IMPELLED BY A
COMBINATION OF FEAR AND PRIDE.
THOSE LAST FEW SECONDS SEEMED AN
ETERNITY
I LEFT AT THE TAPE LIKE A MA
TAKING A LAST DESPERATE SPRING
TO SAVE HIMSELF.
ROGER BANNISTER IS NOW 85 AN
BATTLING PARKINSON'S DISEASE,
CONDITION HE HAS TREATED IN HI
MANY DECADES AS A NEUROLOGIST.
>>> JOIN US ON-AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW ON "NEWS HOUR" FOR TH
LATEST FROM UKRAINE, FOLLOWING
TODAY'S IMPORTANT REFERENDUM
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING AND HAPP
MOTHER'S DAY